README.md, before:

# Clearance-wizard

An AR-based clearance checking tool for boilers, radiators, and other appliances using ArUco markers.

## Setup Instructions

### Quick Start

The application now includes OpenCV.js in the repository, so you can run it immediately without any additional downloads.

### Running the Application

Since this application uses camera access and loads local files, you need to serve it through a local web server:

```bash
# Using Python 3
python -m http.server 8000

# Or using Python 2
python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000

# Or using Node.js
npx http-server -p 8000
```

Then open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:8000
```

## Features

- AR-based clearance visualization using ArUco markers
- Support for multiple appliance types (boilers, radiators, cylinders, flues)
- Custom marker and appliance sizing
- Real-time camera tracking and overlay

## ArUco Markers

This application uses ArUco markers for AR tracking. You need to have pre-printed markers to use the app.

**How to get markers:**

1. **Download pre-generated markers**: You can download a PDF with ArUco markers from various online sources
2. **Generate markers yourself**: Use Python with OpenCV to generate markers from the DICT_4X4_50 dictionary (IDs 0-49)
3. **Online generators**: Search for "ArUco marker generator DICT_4X4_50" online

**Recommended marker sizes:**
- 43mm (credit card size) - Most portable
- 53mm - Good balance
- 160mm or larger - Better detection at distance

Print the markers on white paper with a black printer for best results.

## Troubleshooting

If you see "Loading OpenCV..." or initialization errors:

1. Make sure you're running the app through a local web server (not opening the HTML file directly)
2. Check your browser console (F12) for detailed error messages
3. Ensure your browser supports WebRTC and camera access
4. Ensure `opencv.js` is present in the project root directory (it should be included in the repository)

## Browser Compatibility

- Requires a modern browser with WebRTC support (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
- Camera access is required for AR functionality
- Works best on mobile devices with rear-facing cameras

Commit message:

Fix OpenCV initialization check
The app was checking for cv.aruco which doesn't exist in the bundled
opencv.js file. Changed to check for cv.Mat instead, which is the
actual function used by the VisionSystem class. Also updated
documentation to clarify that the app uses contour detection, not
ArUco markers.

README.md, after:

# Clearance-wizard

An AR-based clearance checking tool for boilers, radiators, and other appliances using ArUco markers.

## Setup Instructions

### Quick Start

The application now includes OpenCV.js in the repository, so you can run it immediately without any additional downloads.

### Running the Application

Since this application uses camera access and loads local files, you need to serve it through a local web server:

```bash
# Using Python 3
python -m http.server 8000

# Or using Python 2
python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000

# Or using Node.js
npx http-server -p 8000
```

Then open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:8000
```

## Features

- AR-based clearance visualization using ArUco markers
- Support for multiple appliance types (boilers, radiators, cylinders, flues)
- Custom marker and appliance sizing
- Real-time camera tracking and overlay

## Marker Detection

This application uses computer vision to detect square markers for AR tracking. You need to have a printed square marker (ideally black on white background) to use the app.

**How to create markers:**

1. **Print a simple square**: Any black square on white paper will work
2. **Use QR codes**: QR codes work well as they're already square
3. **Create a custom pattern**: Draw or print any high-contrast square shape

**Recommended marker sizes:**
- 45mm - Default setting
- 53mm (credit card size) - Good balance
- 160mm or larger - Better detection at distance

Print the markers on white paper with a black printer for best results. The app detects the square shape using contour detection.

## Troubleshooting

If you see "Loading OpenCV..." or initialization errors:

1. Make sure you're running the app through a local web server (not opening the HTML file directly)
2. Check your browser console (F12) for detailed error messages
3. Ensure your browser supports WebRTC and camera access
4. Ensure `opencv.js` is present in the project root directory (it should be included in the repository)

## Browser Compatibility

- Requires a modern browser with WebRTC support (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
- Camera access is required for AR functionality
- Works best on mobile devices with rear-facing cameras
